.. _bda-the-place-of-model-checking-in-applied-bayesian-statistics:

========================================================================
The Place of Model Checking in Applied Bayesian Statistics
========================================================================

**Part 2 · Stage 6 · 🔍 Model Checking & Comparison**  ·  Lesson 040 of 144  ·  *intermediate*

:doc:`◀ Previous · Weakly Informative Priors for Variance Parameters <039-weakly-informative-priors-for-variance-parameters>`   ·   :doc:`Next · Do the Inferences from the Model Make Sense? ▶ <041-do-the-inferences-from-the-model-make-sense>`   ·   :doc:`↑ Section <index>`


.. important::

   **AI-generated content.** This page was written with the assistance of an
   AI language model and is provided as a learning aid. Despite careful
   review, it may still contain mistakes, omissions, or out-of-date
   information. Whether you are new to the topic, a team lead, or a senior
   practitioner, treat it as a starting point rather than an authoritative
   reference: read it critically and independently verify anything you act on
   (code, commands, figures, and factual claims) against official
   documentation and primary sources before relying on it.

The third step, at last
-------------------------

Part I was about steps one and two: build a full probability model, condition on data. Everything
downstream — every posterior mean, every credible interval, every decision — is **conditional on the
model being adequate**. Step three asks whether it is. This is not an afterthought appended to a
completed analysis; it is what makes the analysis trustworthy, and it is where Part II begins.

Bayes' rule cannot check itself
---------------------------------

Conditioning is a closed operation: given a model, the posterior follows deterministically. If the
likelihood is wrong, Bayes' rule reports a **coherent, confident, wrong** posterior, and as Stage 4
showed, more data make it more confident without making it less wrong. Nothing **inside** the model
signals the problem. The check must therefore compare the model's implications against something
outside it — the **data**, and what you know about the world.

Three questions
-----------------

Model checking asks, in ascending order of ambition:

* **Do the inferences make sense?** Are parameter values physically possible, effects of plausible
  magnitude, signs in the right direction?
* **Does the model fit the data?** Would data generated by the fitted model resemble the data actually
  observed — in the features you care about? (This is the **posterior predictive check**, next lesson.)
* **How sensitive are the conclusions?** Would a different reasonable prior, likelihood or subset of
  the data change what you would do?

A model is a hypothesis, not a truth
--------------------------------------

Every model is false; the question is whether it is **false in a way that matters** for the purpose at
hand. So checking is purposive: a model may be perfectly adequate for estimating a mean and hopeless for
predicting extremes. Failures are not embarrassments but **discoveries** — each rejected check points at
a missing feature, and the response is to **expand** the model, refit, and check again. The three steps
are a loop.

.. code-block:: python

   import arviz as az
   # the checking toolkit of the coming lessons, in one place
   az.plot_ppc(idata)          # replicated vs observed data
   az.loo(idata)               # leave-one-out predictive accuracy
   az.plot_loo_pit(idata)      # calibration of predictive distributions

Not hypothesis testing
------------------------

A final distinction. Checking is not a significance test that accepts or rejects the model; a
:math:`p`-value that looks extreme tells you *where* the model misses, not whether to "reject" it at
5%. The aim is not a verdict but **understanding** — and, ultimately, a better model.

.. hint::

   **Related lessons:** :doc:`The three steps of Bayesian data analysis <001-the-three-steps-of-bayesian-data-analysis>`  ·  :doc:`Do the Inferences from the Model Make Sense? <041-do-the-inferences-from-the-model-make-sense>`  ·  :doc:`Posterior predictive checking <042-posterior-predictive-checking>`  ·  :doc:`Continuous model expansion <048-continuous-model-expansion>`

.. seealso::

   **Source article** Adapted (context, re-expressed) in our own words from: `https://insightful-data-lab.com/2025/11/10/the-place-of-model-checking-in-applied-bayesian-statistics/ <https://insightful-data-lab.com/2025/11/10/the-place-of-model-checking-in-applied-bayesian-statistics/>`__ (insightful-data-lab.com).

.. tags:: purpose: reference, topic: data analysis, domain: bayesian, level: intermediate
