Step 5: Create another User
===========================

.. include:: urls.rst

.. include:: ../../includes/prolog.inc

.. contents:: Table of Contents

Another method of logging in without the root password is to create a user
with restricted rights.

  * The user could be a part of SUDO group
  * Or, you can ``su root`` when you need root access

Create Non-privileged User
--------------------------
You can do most of your work without logging in as root. At times
you will still need to use root privileges.

This text is from OVH's |Securing a VPS| guide.

#. Creating a user with restricted rights, and intervening in the system
   with root rights.

   * You can create a new user with the following command: |br|

   .. code-block:: bash

       adduser CustomUserName

#. Then fill in the information requested by the system (password, name, etc.).
   This user will be allowed to log in to your system via SSH, with the
   password specified when the account was created.

#. Once you are logged in to your system with these credentials, if you want
   to perform operations that require root rights, simply type the following
   command:

   .. code-block:: bash

       su root

#. You must then enter the password associated with the root user to validate
   the operation.

Add a Limited User account
--------------------------

Another option is to |add a limited user account|.

The process is simple for Ubuntu.

#. Add a user

   .. code-block:: bash

       adduser CustomUserName

#. Then, add the user to the ``sudo`` group.

   * |Linux 101: Introduction to sudo| explains about sudo |br|

   .. code-block:: bash

       adduser CustomUserName sudo

#. This user can use elevated privileges by prefixing every command with
   ``sudo``. The user will have to enter their password during the sessions.

.. note:: It is recommended that you use a password-less login for all users.
    Instead, create SSH keys for the logins.

.. admonition:: Source & license
   :class: note

   Reproduced **verbatim, without modification** from
   `© 2022, BilimEdtech Labs <https://labs.bilimedtech.com/index.html>`__,
   licensed under
   `Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) <https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en>`__.

   Source page:
   https://labs.bilimedtech.com/cloud-computing/8/8.5.html

   See :doc:`LICENSE <../../LICENSE_edtech>` for the full license text.
