*********************************************
Step 4: Modify the hello world application
*********************************************

.. include:: ../../includes/prolog.inc

.. include:: ../asm-urls.rst

.. contents:: Table of Contents

**Objective**: Modify the text of the hello world application to display
your in the ASCII representation.

To review, assembling and compiling an ``.asm`` code file is a
two-part process:

#. ``nasm -f win32 file.asm``

   - ``nasm`` is the assembler program
   - ``-f`` specifies the format, which is win32
   - ``file.asm`` is the file to parse and then create the ``.obj`` file

#. ``gcc file.obj -o file.exe``

   - ``gcc`` is the compiler
   - ``file.obj`` is the assembled file used to create the executable
   - ``-o file.exe`` specifies the output file in the form of an executable

Display your name in ASCII
========================================
Your task is to modify the hello world application to display a
custom message. The output from the executable should display
`your name` and the `integer representation` of your name based
on the ASCII characters. You'll learn how to convert ASCII to
integers using assembly code in a future lab. :) For now, use
the |ASCII codes| as a your reference.

.. hint::
    For example: Aziz - 065 122 108 122

    * A = 065
    * z = 122
    * i = 108
    * z = 122

#. Create a new ``.asm`` file called ``lab1-YourName.asm``
#. Change the output to display your name and the ASCII representation.

   - Examples of output:

     - Sarah - 083 097 114 097 104
     - Sanjar - 083 097 110 106 097 114
     - Stephen - 083 116 101 112 104 101 110

#. Upload the ``.asm`` and ``.obj`` files to the LMS.

.. note:: Modify the code header to include the:

    * Name of the file
    * A short description of what the file does
    * Your name and date

.. admonition:: Source & license
   :class: note

   Reproduced **verbatim, without modification** from
   `© 2022, BilimEdtech Labs <https://labs.bilimedtech.com/index.html>`__,
   licensed under
   `Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) <https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en>`__.

   Source page:
   https://labs.bilimedtech.com/nasm/windows-install/4.html

   See :doc:`LICENSE <../../LICENSE_edtech>` for the full license text.
