7.2. Getting the Exit Code
==========================

.. include:: ../c-urls.rst

.. contents:: Table of Contents

We don’t want to terminate a process forcefully most of the time. We want
the process to exit gracefully. The exit code for a child process provides
vital information about what the process is doing. It gives us a chance
to wait for the process to exit instead of terminating it. This section
explains how to use ``GetExitCodeProcess()`` to retrieve the exit code.

|GetExitCodeProcess|
    Retrieves the termination status of the specified process.

    .. code-block:: c

        BOOL GetExitCodeProcess(
            HANDLE  process_handle, // A handle to the process.
            DWORD exit_code         // A pointer to the exit code of the process.
        );

    .. note:: ``GetExitCodeProcess()`` requires additional flags in the process handle.

        The handle must have the ``PROCESS_QUERY_INFORMATION`` or
        ``PROCESS_QUERY_LIMITED_INFORMATION`` access right. For more information,
        see |Process Security and Access Rights|.


7.2.1. Terminate with an Exit Code
----------------------------------

Copy file ``lab7.1.c`` to ``lab7.2.c`` for this exercise.

Typically, we use the return of ``return 0`` or ``return 1`` to exit our
application to indicate if the process exited in a state of success or
failure. ``TerminateProcess()`` sends the value of the exit code to the process
in the second argument. The process terminates immediately using that code.

.. code-block:: c

    TerminateProcess(hProcess, uExitCode);

#. Replace the ``0`` in the second arg with any valid unsigned ``int``,
   such as 35.
#. Print the PID and the expected exit code.

**Expected Output**

::

    Sent exit code '35' to PID 22640

7.2.2. Get the Exit Code
------------------------

#. Add the ``PROCESS_QUERY_INFORMATION`` flag to ``OpenProcess()``.
#. Use ``GetExitCodeProcess()`` to get the exit code that the process
   returned.
#. Print the exit code from ``GetExitCodeProcess()``.

**Expected Output**

::

    Sent exit code '35' to PID 22568.
    PID 22568 returned exit code '35'.

.. admonition:: Source & license
   :class: note

   Reproduced **verbatim, without modification** from
   `© 2022, BilimEdtech Labs <https://labs.bilimedtech.com/index.html>`__,
   licensed under
   `Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International (CC BY 4.0) <https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/deed.en>`__.

   Source page:
   https://labs.bilimedtech.com/operating-systems/7/2.html

   See :doc:`LICENSE <../../LICENSE_edtech>` for the full license text.
